.ai/requirements/REQ-004-mcp-server-tenant-admin.md, before:

---
docid: REQ-004
title: MCP Server for Tenant Administrators
owner: @SARAH
status: Draft
created: 2026-01-03
---

# REQ-004: MCP Server for Tenant Administrators

## Executive Summary
Implement an MCP (Model Context Protocol) server that provides AI-powered administrative tools for B2Connect tenant-administrators. The server enables administrators to leverage AI for CMS page design, email template creation, system health monitoring, and other administrative tasks while maintaining strict tenant isolation and security.

## Business Value
- **Efficiency**: AI-assisted administrative workflows reduce manual effort
- **User Experience**: Intuitive AI-powered tools for complex tasks
- **Scalability**: Automated assistance scales with tenant growth
- **Innovation**: Cutting-edge AI integration differentiates B2Connect

## Functional Requirements

### Core Administrative Tools
1. **CMS Page Design Tools**
   - List available CMS components and templates
   - Generate page layouts with drag-and-drop assistance
   - Preview page designs with sample content
   - Save designed pages to CMS system

2. **Email Template Creation Tools**
   - List and create email templates
   - Insert variables and personalization
   - Preview templates with sample data
   - Send test emails

3. **System Health Monitoring Tools**
   - Retrieve overall system health status
   - View system logs filtered by tenant
   - Check active alerts and diagnostics
   - Run health checks on components

4. **Administrative Management Tools**
   - List and create user accounts
   - Retrieve analytics data
   - Moderate content requiring review
   - Initiate and monitor data backups

### System Prompt Customization
1. **Prompt Editor Interface**
   - Rich text editor for system prompts
   - Syntax highlighting and validation
   - Preview functionality for prompt testing
   - Template variable insertion

2. **Per-Tool Prompt Management**
   - Individual prompts for each MCP tool category
   - Version history with diff viewing
   - Rollback to previous prompt versions
   - Default prompt fallbacks

3. **Prompt Templates & Variables**
   - Pre-defined template structures
   - Dynamic variable substitution
   - Context-aware prompt generation
   - Multi-language prompt support

### AI Configuration Management
1. **Provider Configuration**
   - Select AI provider (OpenAI, Anthropic, Azure OpenAI, etc.)
   - Configure API keys and endpoints
   - Set organization/tenant IDs

2. **Model Configuration**
   - Choose default AI models
   - Configure model mappings per task type
   - Set token limits and parameters

3. **Usage Management**
   - Set monthly budgets and rate limits
   - Monitor usage and costs
   - Configure alerts for budget thresholds

4. **Security Settings**
   - Content filtering levels
   - Approval requirements for high-risk operations
   - Audit logging preferences

5. **System Prompt Management**
   - Edit system prompts for each MCP tool
   - Customize AI behavior per tenant needs
   - Version control and rollback for prompts
   - Template variables for dynamic content

5. **System Prompt Management**
   - Edit system prompts for each MCP tool
   - Customize AI behavior per tenant needs
   - Version control and rollback for prompts
   - Template variables for dynamic content

### Prompt Management System
1. **Prompt Storage & Customization**
   - Per-tenant prompt storage with tenant isolation
   - Tool-specific prompts (CMS, email, health, admin, general)
   - Template variables for dynamic content injection
   - Version control with change history and rollback

2. **Prompt Management API**
   - CRUD operations for tenant-specific prompts
   - Bulk import/export capabilities
   - Prompt validation and syntax checking
   - Template variable management

3. **Frontend Prompt Editor**
   - Rich text editor with syntax highlighting
   - Live preview with sample data
   - Template variable insertion tools
   - Prompt testing interface

4. **MCP Integration**
   - Dynamic prompt loading based on tenant context
   - Fallback to default prompts when tenant prompts unavailable
   - Performance-optimized prompt caching
   - Real-time prompt updates without server restart

5. **Security & Validation**
   - Content validation to prevent malicious prompts
   - XSS and injection attack prevention
   - Prompt length and complexity limits
   - Approval workflow for high-risk prompt changes

6. **Audit & Compliance**
   - Complete audit trail of prompt changes
   - Change attribution to specific administrators
   - Compliance logging for regulatory requirements
   - Automated backup and recovery

## Technical Requirements

### MCP Protocol Compliance
- Implement MCP 2024-11-05 specification
- Support JSON-RPC 2.0 message transport
- Handle initialization, tool discovery, and execution
- Provide resource listing and reading capabilities

### Multi-Tenant Architecture
- Complete tenant isolation for all operations
- Tenant-scoped data access and storage
- Secure API key management per tenant
- Audit logging with tenant context

### Prompt Management Architecture
1. **Database Schema**
   - `tenant_prompts` table with tenant_id, tool_type, prompt_key, content, version
   - `prompt_versions` table for change history and rollback
   - `prompt_templates` table for reusable template components
   - `prompt_audit_log` table for compliance tracking

2. **API Design**
   - RESTful endpoints: `GET/POST/PUT/DELETE /api/v1/tenants/{tenantId}/prompts`
   - Bulk operations: `POST /api/v1/tenants/{tenantId}/prompts/bulk`
   - Validation endpoint: `POST /api/v1/prompts/validate`
   - Template variables: `GET /api/v1/prompts/templates/variables`

3. **Caching Strategy**
   - Redis-based prompt caching with tenant-specific namespaces
   - Cache invalidation on prompt updates
   - Fallback mechanisms for cache failures
   - Performance monitoring and cache hit ratios

4. **Template System**
   - Variable substitution: `{{tenant.name}}`, `{{user.email}}`, `{{context.data}}`
   - Conditional blocks: `{% if condition %}content{% endif %}`
   - Loop constructs: `{% for item in items %}{{item}}{% endfor %}`
   - Custom functions: `{{format_date(date, 'YYYY-MM-DD')}}`

5. **Security Implementation**
   - Input sanitization using DOMPurify for HTML content
   - Prompt execution sandboxing to prevent code injection
   - Rate limiting on prompt updates (max 10/minute per tenant)
   - Content validation against allowlists and blocklists

6. **Versioning & Rollback**
   - Automatic versioning on every prompt change
   - Manual rollback to previous versions
   - Diff visualization for change review
   - Retention policy: keep last 50 versions per prompt

### Security Requirements
- JWT-based authentication with tenant claims
- Role-based access control (admin-only)
- Encrypted storage of sensitive configuration
- Rate limiting and abuse prevention
- GDPR/NIS2/BITV 2.0 compliance

### Performance Requirements
- Response time < 2 seconds for tool execution
- Support for streaming responses
- Horizontal scaling with stateless design
- Caching for frequently accessed data
- Prompt loading < 100ms from cache, < 500ms from database
- Template rendering < 50ms for complex prompts
- Concurrent prompt updates without blocking reads

### Integration Requirements
- RESTful APIs for configuration management
- WebSocket support for real-time updates
- Integration with existing B2Connect services
- Support for multiple AI providers
- Dynamic prompt loading and caching

## User Experience Requirements

### Management Frontend Integration
- Intuitive configuration interface
- Real-time usage monitoring
- Test connection functionality
- Visual feedback for all operations
- Rich prompt editing with syntax highlighting

### Administrative Workflow
- Guided AI-assisted task completion
- Preview capabilities before execution
- Undo/rollback for reversible operations
- Contextual help and suggestions

### Prompt Management User Experience
- **Prompt Editor Interface**
  - Monaco Editor with syntax highlighting for prompt syntax
  - Real-time validation with error indicators
  - Auto-completion for template variables and functions
  - Split-pane view: editor + live preview

- **Template Variable Management**
  - Visual variable picker with descriptions
  - Drag-and-drop variable insertion
  - Variable testing with sample data
  - Custom variable creation and management

- **Prompt Testing & Preview**
  - Live preview with tenant-specific sample data
  - AI response simulation before saving
  - Side-by-side comparison with default prompts
  - Performance metrics for prompt execution

- **Version Control Interface**
  - Change history with diff visualization
  - One-click rollback to previous versions
  - Comment system for change documentation
  - Approval workflow for critical prompt changes

### Error Handling
- Clear, actionable error messages
- Graceful degradation when AI unavailable
- Automatic retry for transient failures
- User-friendly troubleshooting guides

## Non-Functional Requirements

### Reliability
- 99.9% uptime for MCP server
- Automatic failover to backup providers
- Comprehensive error recovery
- Regular health checks and monitoring

### Scalability
- Support for 1000+ concurrent tenant sessions
- Horizontal scaling across multiple instances
- Efficient resource utilization
- Database connection pooling

### Maintainability
- Modular architecture with clear separation of concerns
- Comprehensive test coverage (>80%)
- Automated deployment and rollback
- Detailed logging and monitoring

### Compliance
- SOC 2 Type II compliance
- Data residency requirements
- Audit trail retention (7 years)
- Regular security assessments

## Dependencies

### Internal Dependencies
- B2Connect Identity service for authentication
- B2Connect CMS API for page management
- B2Connect Email service for template handling
- B2Connect Health monitoring service
- B2Connect Admin APIs for user/content management
- B2Connect Prompt Management service for tenant prompt storage and retrieval
- B2Connect Audit service for prompt change logging

### External Dependencies
- AI provider APIs (OpenAI, Anthropic, etc.)
- Encryption service (Azure Key Vault)
- Monitoring service (Application Insights)
- Database (PostgreSQL with tenant isolation)
- Template engine (Liquid, Handlebars, or custom)
- Rich text editor (Monaco Editor, CodeMirror)
- Content validation (DOMPurify, custom sanitization)
- Caching service (Redis for prompt caching)

## Acceptance Criteria

### Functional Acceptance
- [ ] All 20 MCP tools implemented and tested
- [ ] AI configuration fully manageable via frontend
- [ ] Tenant isolation verified across all operations
- [ ] Multi-provider AI support working
- [ ] Usage monitoring and cost tracking operational
- [ ] System prompt editing and versioning functional
- [ ] Prompt management system fully functional
- [ ] Tenant-specific prompts customizable via Management frontend
- [ ] Template variables working correctly
- [ ] Prompt versioning and rollback operational
- [ ] Security validation preventing malicious prompts

### Technical Acceptance
- [ ] MCP protocol compliance verified
- [ ] Security audit passed
- [ ] Performance benchmarks met
- [ ] Integration tests passing
- [ ] Documentation complete

### User Acceptance
- [ ] Administrative workflows documented
- [ ] Training materials created
- [ ] User feedback incorporated
- [ ] Production deployment successful

## Implementation Plan

### Phase 1: Foundation (2 weeks)
- MCP server project setup
- Basic authentication and tenant context
- Tool registration framework
- Database schema for AI configurations

### Phase 2: Core Tools (4 weeks)
- CMS page design tools
- Email template tools
- System health tools
- Basic AI provider integration

### Phase 3: Advanced Features (3 weeks)
- Administrative management tools
- Multi-provider support
- Usage monitoring and cost tracking
- Frontend configuration UI

### Phase 4: Production Readiness (2 weeks)
- Security hardening and testing
- Performance optimization
- Documentation and training
- Deployment preparation

## Risk Assessment

### High Risk
- **AI Provider Reliability**: Single points of failure
  - Mitigation: Multi-provider support with automatic failover

- **Tenant Data Security**: API key exposure or cross-tenant access
  - Mitigation: Encryption, isolation middleware, regular audits

### Medium Risk
- **Performance Impact**: AI calls affecting system responsiveness
  - Mitigation: Rate limiting, caching, async processing

- **Cost Management**: Uncontrolled AI usage costs
  - Mitigation: Budget controls, usage monitoring, alerts

### Low Risk
- **MCP Protocol Changes**: Specification updates
  - Mitigation: Version management, backward compatibility

- **Provider API Changes**: Breaking changes in AI APIs
  - Mitigation: Abstraction layer, automated testing

## Success Metrics

### Business Metrics
- **User Adoption**: 70% of tenants configure AI within 3 months
- **Efficiency Gain**: 40% reduction in administrative task time
- **Cost Savings**: Positive ROI within 6 months

### Technical Metrics
- **Availability**: 99.9% uptime
- **Performance**: <2 second response times
- **Security**: Zero security incidents
- **Scalability**: Support 10x current load

## Stakeholders

### Primary Stakeholders
- **Product Owner**: @ProductOwner - Requirements validation
- **Technical Lead**: @TechLead - Architecture oversight
- **Security Lead**: @Security - Security requirements
- **DevOps Lead**: @DevOps - Deployment and operations

### Secondary Stakeholders
- **Frontend Team**: @Frontend - UI implementation
- **Backend Team**: @Backend - API and service implementation
- **QA Team**: @QA - Testing and validation
- **Legal/Compliance**: @Legal - Regulatory compliance

## Communication Plan

### Internal Communication
- **Weekly Status Updates**: Sprint reviews with progress updates
- **Technical Reviews**: Architecture and security reviews
- **Stakeholder Demos**: Monthly demonstrations of progress

### External Communication
- **Tenant Notifications**: Beta program announcements
- **Documentation**: User guides and API documentation
- **Training**: Administrator training sessions

## Change Management

### Version Control
- Semantic versioning for MCP server releases
- Backward compatibility for tool interfaces
- Migration guides for configuration changes

### Rollback Plan
- Database backup before deployments
- Feature flags for gradual rollout
- Automated rollback scripts
- Monitoring for post-deployment issues

---

**Next Steps:**
1. Architecture review with @Architect
2. Security assessment with @Security
3. Implementation planning with development teams
4. Timeline and resource allocation</content>
<parameter name="filePath">/Users/holger/Documents/Projekte/B2Connect/.ai/requirements/REQ-004-mcp-server-tenant-admin.md

Commit message:

feat(mcp): Complete Phase 2 database schema with EF Core migration
- Add AI provider packages to central Directory.Packages.props
- Enable ManagePackageVersionsCentrally in MCP project
- Create stub implementations for MCP protocol types
- Fix dependency injection issues for design-time migrations
- Generate InitialMcpSchema migration with complete database schema:
  * AiConsumptionRecords - AI usage tracking
  * AiProviderConfigurations - Provider settings
  * AiUsageMetrics - Aggregated usage metrics
  * SystemPrompts - Tenant-specific system prompts
  * TenantAiConfigurations - Tenant AI provider configs
  * PromptVersions - Prompt versioning
  * PromptAuditLogs - Audit trails
- Add proper indexes for performance
- Create DesignTimeDbContextFactory for migrations

.ai/requirements/REQ-004-mcp-server-tenant-admin.md, after:

---
docid: REQ-004
title: MCP Server for Tenant Administrators
owner: @SARAH
status: Draft
created: 2026-01-03
---

# REQ-004: MCP Server for Tenant Administrators

## Executive Summary
Implement an MCP (Model Context Protocol) server that provides AI-powered administrative tools for B2Connect tenant-administrators. The server enables administrators to leverage AI for CMS page design, email template creation, system health monitoring, and other administrative tasks while maintaining strict tenant isolation and security.

## Business Value
- **Efficiency**: AI-assisted administrative workflows reduce manual effort
- **User Experience**: Intuitive AI-powered tools for complex tasks
- **Scalability**: Automated assistance scales with tenant growth
- **Innovation**: Cutting-edge AI integration differentiates B2Connect

## Functional Requirements

### Core Administrative Tools
1. **CMS Page Design Tools**
   - List available CMS components and templates
   - Generate page layouts with drag-and-drop assistance
   - Preview page designs with sample content
   - Save designed pages to CMS system

2. **Email Template Creation Tools**
   - List and create email templates
   - Insert variables and personalization
   - Preview templates with sample data
   - Send test emails

3. **System Health Monitoring Tools**
   - Retrieve overall system health status
   - View system logs filtered by tenant
   - Check active alerts and diagnostics
   - Run health checks on components

4. **Administrative Management Tools**
   - List and create user accounts
   - Retrieve analytics data
   - Moderate content requiring review
   - Initiate and monitor data backups

### System Prompt Customization
1. **Prompt Editor Interface**
   - Rich text editor for system prompts
   - Syntax highlighting and validation
   - Preview functionality for prompt testing
   - Template variable insertion

2. **Per-Tool Prompt Management**
   - Individual prompts for each MCP tool category
   - Version history with diff viewing
   - Rollback to previous prompt versions
   - Default prompt fallbacks

3. **Prompt Templates & Variables**
   - Pre-defined template structures
   - Dynamic variable substitution
   - Context-aware prompt generation
   - Multi-language prompt support

### AI Configuration Management
1. **Provider Configuration**
   - Select AI provider (OpenAI, Anthropic, Azure OpenAI, etc.)
   - Configure API keys and endpoints
   - Set organization/tenant IDs

2. **Model Configuration**
   - Choose default AI models
   - Configure model mappings per task type
   - Set token limits and parameters

3. **Usage Management**
   - Set monthly budgets and rate limits
   - Monitor usage and costs
   - Configure alerts for budget thresholds
   - **Exclusive AI consumption monitoring** - track all AI usage by MCP server
   - **Automated limiting and throttling** - prevent budget overruns

4. **Security Settings**
   - Content filtering levels
   - Approval requirements for high-risk operations
   - Audit logging preferences

5. **System Prompt Management**
   - Edit system prompts for each MCP tool
   - Customize AI behavior per tenant needs
   - Version control and rollback for prompts
   - Template variables for dynamic content

5. **System Prompt Management**
   - Edit system prompts for each MCP tool
   - Customize AI behavior per tenant needs
   - Version control and rollback for prompts
   - Template variables for dynamic content

### Prompt Management System
1. **Prompt Storage & Customization**
   - Per-tenant prompt storage with tenant isolation
   - Tool-specific prompts (CMS, email, health, admin, general)
   - Template variables for dynamic content injection
   - Version control with change history and rollback

2. **Prompt Management API**
   - CRUD operations for tenant-specific prompts
   - Bulk import/export capabilities
   - Prompt validation and syntax checking
   - Template variable management

3. **Frontend Prompt Editor**
   - Rich text editor with syntax highlighting
   - Live preview with sample data
   - Template variable insertion tools
   - Prompt testing interface

4. **MCP Integration**
   - Dynamic prompt loading based on tenant context
   - Fallback to default prompts when tenant prompts unavailable
   - Performance-optimized prompt caching
   - Real-time prompt updates without server restart

5. **Security & Validation**
   - Content validation to prevent malicious prompts
   - XSS and injection attack prevention
   - Prompt length and complexity limits
   - Approval workflow for high-risk prompt changes

6. **Audit & Compliance**
   - Complete audit trail of prompt changes
   - Change attribution to specific administrators
   - Compliance logging for regulatory requirements
   - Automated backup and recovery

## Technical Requirements

### MCP Protocol Compliance
- Implement MCP 2024-11-05 specification
- Support JSON-RPC 2.0 message transport
- Handle initialization, tool discovery, and execution
- Provide resource listing and reading capabilities

### Multi-Tenant Architecture
- Complete tenant isolation for all operations
- Tenant-scoped data access and storage
- Secure API key management per tenant
- Audit logging with tenant context

### Prompt Management Architecture
1. **Database Schema**
   - `tenant_prompts` table with tenant_id, tool_type, prompt_key, content, version
   - `prompt_versions` table for change history and rollback
   - `prompt_templates` table for reusable template components
   - `prompt_audit_log` table for compliance tracking

2. **API Design**
   - RESTful endpoints: `GET/POST/PUT/DELETE /api/v1/tenants/{tenantId}/prompts`
   - Bulk operations: `POST /api/v1/tenants/{tenantId}/prompts/bulk`
   - Validation endpoint: `POST /api/v1/prompts/validate`
   - Template variables: `GET /api/v1/prompts/templates/variables`

3. **Caching Strategy**
   - Redis-based prompt caching with tenant-specific namespaces
   - Cache invalidation on prompt updates
   - Fallback mechanisms for cache failures
   - Performance monitoring and cache hit ratios

4. **Template System**
   - Variable substitution: `{{tenant.name}}`, `{{user.email}}`, `{{context.data}}`
   - Conditional blocks: `{% if condition %}content{% endif %}`
   - Loop constructs: `{% for item in items %}{{item}}{% endfor %}`
   - Custom functions: `{{format_date(date, 'YYYY-MM-DD')}}`

5. **Security Implementation**
   - Input sanitization using DOMPurify for HTML content
   - Prompt execution sandboxing to prevent code injection
   - Rate limiting on prompt updates (max 10/minute per tenant)
   - Content validation against allowlists and blocklists

6. **Versioning & Rollback**
   - Automatic versioning on every prompt change
   - Manual rollback to previous versions
   - Diff visualization for change review
   - Retention policy: keep last 50 versions per prompt

### Security Requirements
- JWT-based authentication with tenant claims
- Role-based access control (admin-only)
- Encrypted storage of sensitive configuration
- Rate limiting and abuse prevention
- GDPR/NIS2/BITV 2.0 compliance
- **Exclusive AI consumption controls** - MCP server as sole AI consumer
- **AI usage monitoring and limiting** - comprehensive tracking and budget enforcement

### Performance Requirements
- Response time < 2 seconds for tool execution
- Support for streaming responses
- Horizontal scaling with stateless design
- Caching for frequently accessed data
- Prompt loading < 100ms from cache, < 500ms from database
- Template rendering < 50ms for complex prompts
- Concurrent prompt updates without blocking reads

### Integration Requirements
- RESTful APIs for configuration management
- WebSocket support for real-time updates
- Integration with existing B2Connect services
- Support for multiple AI providers
- Dynamic prompt loading and caching

## User Experience Requirements

### Management Frontend Integration
- Intuitive configuration interface
- Real-time usage monitoring
- Test connection functionality
- Visual feedback for all operations
- Rich prompt editing with syntax highlighting

### Administrative Workflow
- Guided AI-assisted task completion
- Preview capabilities before execution
- Undo/rollback for reversible operations
- Contextual help and suggestions

### Prompt Management User Experience
- **Prompt Editor Interface**
  - Monaco Editor with syntax highlighting for prompt syntax
  - Real-time validation with error indicators
  - Auto-completion for template variables and functions
  - Split-pane view: editor + live preview

- **Template Variable Management**
  - Visual variable picker with descriptions
  - Drag-and-drop variable insertion
  - Variable testing with sample data
  - Custom variable creation and management

- **Prompt Testing & Preview**
  - Live preview with tenant-specific sample data
  - AI response simulation before saving
  - Side-by-side comparison with default prompts
  - Performance metrics for prompt execution

- **Version Control Interface**
  - Change history with diff visualization
  - One-click rollback to previous versions
  - Comment system for change documentation
  - Approval workflow for critical prompt changes

### Error Handling
- Clear, actionable error messages
- Graceful degradation when AI unavailable
- Automatic retry for transient failures
- User-friendly troubleshooting guides

## Non-Functional Requirements

### Reliability
- 99.9% uptime for MCP server
- Automatic failover to backup providers
- Comprehensive error recovery
- Regular health checks and monitoring

### Scalability
- Support for 1000+ concurrent tenant sessions
- Horizontal scaling across multiple instances
- Efficient resource utilization
- Database connection pooling

### Maintainability
- Modular architecture with clear separation of concerns
- Comprehensive test coverage (>80%)
- Automated deployment and rollback
- Detailed logging and monitoring

### Compliance
- SOC 2 Type II compliance
- Data residency requirements
- Audit trail retention (7 years)
- Regular security assessments

## Dependencies

### Internal Dependencies
- B2Connect Identity service for authentication
- B2Connect CMS API for page management
- B2Connect Email service for template handling
- B2Connect Health monitoring service
- B2Connect Admin APIs for user/content management
- B2Connect Prompt Management service for tenant prompt storage and retrieval
- B2Connect Audit service for prompt change logging

### External Dependencies
- AI provider APIs (OpenAI, Anthropic, etc.)
- Encryption service (Azure Key Vault)
- Monitoring service (Application Insights)
- Database (PostgreSQL with tenant isolation)
- Template engine (Liquid, Handlebars, or custom)
- Rich text editor (Monaco Editor, CodeMirror)
- Content validation (DOMPurify, custom sanitization)
- Caching service (Redis for prompt caching)

## Acceptance Criteria

### Functional Acceptance
- [ ] All 20 MCP tools implemented and tested
- [ ] AI configuration fully manageable via frontend
- [ ] Tenant isolation verified across all operations
- [ ] Multi-provider AI support working
- [ ] Usage monitoring and cost tracking operational
- [ ] System prompt editing and versioning functional
- [ ] **AI consumption strictly limited to MCP server** - no other system components can access AI services
- [ ] **Comprehensive AI usage monitoring** - all AI calls tracked with tenant and tool attribution
- [ ] **Automated rate limiting and budget controls** - prevent cost overruns and abuse
- [ ] Prompt management system fully functional
- [ ] Tenant-specific prompts customizable via Management frontend
- [ ] Template variables working correctly
- [ ] Prompt versioning and rollback operational
- [ ] Security validation preventing malicious prompts

### Technical Acceptance
- [ ] MCP protocol compliance verified
- [ ] Security audit passed
- [ ] Performance benchmarks met
- [ ] Integration tests passing
- [ ] Documentation complete

### User Acceptance
- [ ] Administrative workflows documented
- [ ] Training materials created
- [ ] User feedback incorporated
- [ ] Production deployment successful

## Implementation Plan

### Phase 1: Foundation (2 weeks)
- MCP server project setup
- Basic authentication and tenant context
- Tool registration framework
- Database schema for AI configurations

### Phase 2: Core Tools (4 weeks)
- CMS page design tools
- Email template tools
- System health tools
- Basic AI provider integration

### Phase 3: Advanced Features (3 weeks)
- Administrative management tools
- Multi-provider support
- Usage monitoring and cost tracking
- Frontend configuration UI

### Phase 4: Production Readiness (2 weeks)
- Security hardening and testing
- Performance optimization
- Documentation and training
- Deployment preparation

## Risk Assessment

### High Risk
- **AI Provider Reliability**: Single points of failure
  - Mitigation: Multi-provider support with automatic failover

- **Tenant Data Security**: API key exposure or cross-tenant access
  - Mitigation: Encryption, isolation middleware, regular audits

### Medium Risk
- **Performance Impact**: AI calls affecting system responsiveness
  - Mitigation: Rate limiting, caching, async processing

- **Cost Management**: Uncontrolled AI usage costs
  - Mitigation: Budget controls, usage monitoring, alerts, **exclusive MCP AI access**

### Low Risk
- **MCP Protocol Changes**: Specification updates
  - Mitigation: Version management, backward compatibility

- **Provider API Changes**: Breaking changes in AI APIs
  - Mitigation: Abstraction layer, automated testing

## Success Metrics

### Business Metrics
- **User Adoption**: 70% of tenants configure AI within 3 months
- **Efficiency Gain**: 40% reduction in administrative task time
- **Cost Savings**: Positive ROI within 6 months

### Technical Metrics
- **Availability**: 99.9% uptime
- **Performance**: <2 second response times
- **Security**: Zero security incidents
- **Scalability**: Support 10x current load

## Stakeholders

### Primary Stakeholders
- **Product Owner**: @ProductOwner - Requirements validation
- **Technical Lead**: @TechLead - Architecture oversight
- **Security Lead**: @Security - Security requirements
- **DevOps Lead**: @DevOps - Deployment and operations

### Secondary Stakeholders
- **Frontend Team**: @Frontend - UI implementation
- **Backend Team**: @Backend - API and service implementation
- **QA Team**: @QA - Testing and validation
- **Legal/Compliance**: @Legal - Regulatory compliance

## Communication Plan

### Internal Communication
- **Weekly Status Updates**: Sprint reviews with progress updates
- **Technical Reviews**: Architecture and security reviews
- **Stakeholder Demos**: Monthly demonstrations of progress

### External Communication
- **Tenant Notifications**: Beta program announcements
- **Documentation**: User guides and API documentation
- **Training**: Administrator training sessions

## Change Management

### Version Control
- Semantic versioning for MCP server releases
- Backward compatibility for tool interfaces
- Migration guides for configuration changes

### Rollback Plan
- Database backup before deployments
- Feature flags for gradual rollout
- Automated rollback scripts
- Monitoring for post-deployment issues

---

**Next Steps:**
1. Architecture review with @Architect
2. Security assessment with @Security
3. Implementation planning with development teams
4. Timeline and resource allocation</content>
<parameter name="filePath">/Users/holger/Documents/Projekte/B2Connect/.ai/requirements/REQ-004-mcp-server-tenant-admin.md
